So before we start building our application we're going to need some software to help us build this.
Now we're using dot net core for our web API.
So what we need to download and install is the dot net core SDK from Microsoft.
Now you can get this from dot net dot Microsoft dot com and this will take you to the home page.
And I'm just going to go to the download section now the latest version released of dot net core is
version 2.0 2 at the time of recording and also at the time of recording dot net core 3.0 is in preview
mode.
So if some things in preview mode I wouldn't recommend installing that for a training course because
whilst the code that we write is going to be the same I've taken a look at the preview and the code
that we're writing is the same what you might have an issue with is when we add additional packages
later on you might have a problem if you're using dot net core 3.0.
So what I'd recommend is just grab the latest version just click the download and for dot net core SDK
this will give you the latest released version of this SDK.
And like I say at the moment it's on dot net core to point to.
And once you've downloaded and installed this hour and so your intelligence by showing you how to install
software.
But once you do have it installed and just come into a terminal or a command prompt window.
And this will give you access to the dot net command line interface.
And what we want to do is just typing dot net that stash info and this will tell you which SDK you have
installed and which dot net core runtime you have installed.
I have multiple of these installed side by side.
That's absolutely fine.
But it's not necessary for you to have all of the previous versions installed.
Just make sure you've got the latest version available.
I'm on the latest version available at a time of this recording is two point two for a one.
And the host which is the version of the dot net runtime we're installing is two point two point six.
The DOT SDK gives us access to the command line interface that we're using as well as the build tools
to help us develop our application and the runtime is actually was used to host and run our complete
application.
So many by fan when we install the SDK we also get the runtime installed as well.
So you need that for sure.
For starters what we also need is nodes J.S. and this is a javascript runtime that we use with our angular
application a set and tools that we need from no J.S. to help us build our angular application including
a node package manager which will help us to install additional packages that we need to help us build
that and the latest one available is twelve point nine point A.
And I would recommend sticking to version twelve of this for angular version 8.
It's hard to predict the types of problems you might experience with future releases of no J.S..
So you're perfectly fine with either of these two versions even version 10 or version twelve.
And once you have this installed then what you should be able to do.
I'll just clear my console and what you should be able to do is type in node dash dash version and it
will tell you which version of No G1 I'm on version twelve point eight point one so I didn't have the
absolute latest but any versions 12 is fine or version 10 is fine as well.
And what this gives us access to is a tool called NPM.
And if I just type in NPM version then I'm on six point ten point two of LAX and we'll be using NPM
to install various packages to help us build our angular application what we also need is a code that
her.
Now the one I'm using for all of the demos is visual studio code.
This is an excellent free to use cross platform code editor that we can use to build and compile out
dot net core code.
And it's also excellent for typescript which is what we used to write our angular application.
Now ever I.D. and code editors are available but when it comes to writing dot net core code you are
restricted on ideas that are capable of compiling C sharp code and currently that means even using Visual
Studio code as I'm showing here.
Iva Visual Studio 2017 or 2019 the full versions are never available for Windows.
There is a visual studio for Mac but the last time I used it was not a great experience so I wouldn't
recommend that although it's been a while and there's also an ever IDC called rider from Jet brains
which is also very good and that one is cross platform.
But the downside to that one is it's not free.
Now if you're just getting started I would highly recommend Visual Studio code.
All of the demos it and in Visual Studio code from my side of things.
So the experience should be identical for yourselves when you're coding along to go ahead and install
this for your particular operating system.
Another tool that will use is a tool called postman and we can get this from get postman dot com.
And this is going to allow us to test and query our API without needing to use the browser.
And on this page we should find a download button somewhere although I'm just saying information for
buying tickets for our conference and we just want to go into the product where it's got postman and
download this app and this is what we're looking for.
So please do go ahead and download this as well.
And the other tool will need because we're using secret life for development then it's useful to be
able to browse the data lists inside that database and the tool that helps us do this is called DV browser
for sequel lines.
Now if you've never used secret light before line sequel II is really just a file based relational database
and it's brilliant for development because we don't need to install a database server onto our computer
and we can literally use this.
Anyway it's very useful for development and I did mention earlier we won't be using it for production
but it's super useful for development.
So please do you go ahead and install this one as well.
So now we've got the software installed.
Next step will actually start creating our projects.